#summary Catz application design notes

= The front page =

The front page has the following primary functions ...

When the user arrives to the service, the primary functions she is expecting are
 # to change the UI language if not correctly guessed -> provide a langauge changing link on a high-priority screen location
 # to watch cat show photos immediately -> provide lots of random photo thumbnails on the frond page to choose from
 # to watch the photos from the latest shows immediately -> provide direct links to photos of the latest shows
 # to find the specific photos she are looking for immediately -> provide simple real-time quick find functionality on the front page
   
The seconary functions that the front page will have access to
 # to locate the photos via intuitive lists (these are also provided for search engines)
 # to locate the photos via an advanced search engine with flexible search syntax
 # latest site news
                   
= The secondary objective: to watch the photos =

When the user has found the photos she likes to watch them one by one or
selectively choosing from the photo set. There are various ways to arrange this.

= Lists =

Add Attributes

|| *Subject* || *Subtypes* || *Detail* || *Attributes* ||  
|| album || date descending break by year || - || count date org umb loc coverages ||
|| loc || alphabetically ascending no break, photo count largest first || album date descending || count first last || 
|| org || alphabetically ascending no break, photo count largest first || album date descending || count first last ||
|| breed + ems3 combined || alphabetically asceding no break, photo count largest first || EMS code || count first last ||
|| breeder || alphabetically ascending break by first letter, country name ascending break by country, photo count largest first || cat || count first last nat ||
|| nick || alphabetically ascending break by first letter, photo count largest first || - || count first last ||
|| title || alphabetically ascending not break, photo count largest first || - || count first last ||  
   
= Find = 

 * album
 * date
 * loc
 * org
 * cat
 * breed + ems3 combined
 * breeder
 * ems5
 * ems4
 * ems1
 * title? any?
 * nick?  

= Search =

 * any?
 * album (includes loc date org)
 * cat (includes breeder) 
 * ems (includes all ems forms and breed)
 * text?
 * nick?   
 * has cat/ems
 * and/or/not

= The page layout =

Every page consists of vertical stripes. Stripes are block DOM objects, typically DIVs, always spawning the whole page width.     
                  
== Top ==

Every page has the top stripe that is visually separated from the page content. The top bar contains items on left and items on right.

Items on left are (from left to right):
  * site name: the site's name that is a link to site's front pagepage (exception is the front page that has passive site slogan here)

Items on right (from right to left) are:
  * the language changing link
  * setup change dropdowns 
    * palette change on every page
    * thumb size & number of thumbs on browsing
    * image size & data shown on viewing

== Ingress ==

Ingress stripe contains the page title (H1). There is also the possibility to use the right side of the stripe for some other data of functionality.

== Iterator ==

Iterator's purpose is to provide navigation functions for the current page. So contents of the iterator is different on every page. Iterator uses text links and form elements like dropdowns, not icons.

  * List iterator: change mode a2z, top etc.
  * Inspect iterator: go to browse, go to view
  * Browse iterator: first page, previous page, go to page (dropdown), next page, last page, go to inspect
  * View iterator: first page, previous page, go to photo (input field?), next photo, last photo, go to browse, go to inspect